Hey everyone. Today I'm going to walk
you through my complete workflow for
creating highquality sidescroller assets
using Pixel Lab. We're going to build
everything from scratch. Characters,
animations, tile sets, and even parallax
backgrounds. First things first, every
game needs a hero. I'm heading over to
the create tab and opening the medium to
XL image tool. I want a classic fantasy
feel. So, I'm prompting for a full body
male mage wearing a red cloak. To give
him that classic 2.5D sidescroller
perspective, I'm setting the direction
to southeast. This ensures he's not just
looking flatly to the side, but has a
bit of depth. I'll set the canvas to 64x
64 and keep the background transparent
so he's ready to be dropped into the
game.
Okay, that looks great. But you'll
notice he's facing southwest instead of
southeast. Don't worry, that's an easy
fix. I'll click edit in Pixelarama, go
up to effects, and hit mirror. While I'm
in the editor, I'll do a quick cleanup
pass, fixing any stray pixels or
adjusting the cloak until he's perfect.
Now, let's save him to the gallery.
Perfect. Now, consistency is key in
gamedev. If you want an entire cast that
looks like they belong in the same
world, you use the create from style
reference pro tool. I'm going to drag
our mage in as the reference and prompt
for characters from a ninja fantasy
world with magic spells, no held items.
And just like that, we have a full cast
of characters in the exact same art
style. Again, I'll take a second to hop
into Pixelorama to remove any stray
artifacts. Having clean frames now saves
us a massive headache later when we
start animating. Now for the fun part,
movement. I'll take one of our
characters and head to the animate with
text new tool. One very important tip
here, padding. I'm increasing the canvas
to 80x 80. If you keep the canvas too
tight, your character won't have room
for secondary motion. For the action,
let's start simple with an idle
breathing loop. I'll hit enhance with
AI, which adds those professional
descriptors for us. And set it to eight
frames.
Check it out. The result is a really
smooth, natural idle. Next, the walk
cycle. Using the same starting frame,
I'll prompt for a walking loop.
And there. Really nice. Notice the head
bobbing a bit too much. Just open it in
Pixelorama, copy the head from the first
frame, and realign it across the others.
It's a 10-second fix for a much more
stable animation. Running is trickier
because it's a high energy movement. If
we start from a standing position, the
animation can feel like it has a laggy
start. To fix this, I first use the
animate with text tool and prompt for a
heavy sprint loop at 12 frames to get
some dynamic movement.
Then I move to the interpolate new tool
where we can actually use a first and
last frame. I'll drag one of those
running frames into both the first and
last frame slots. This forces the AI to
create a perfect loop between two
identical points of motion. I'll prompt
running, enhance it,
and boom, a seamless sprint. Just
remember to get rid of that duplicate
frame at the end. Now, let's get a bit
more experimental with a running jump
animation. This is where the workflow
gets really interesting. Instead of
starting from a static pose, I'm going
back into the animate with text new
tool, and I'm going to use one of our
active running animation frames as the
reference. This is crucial because it
keeps the momentum and the character's
lean consistent from the run into the
leap. Of course, I'm going to hit
enhance with AI and I'm going to do 12
frames and hit generate.
Look, we got a pretty long animation
here. Usually, the first couple of
frames are just him starting to jump,
which can make the action feel a little
laggy in game. That's exactly what I'm
going to look at. I'll download the
sprite sheet and bring it into a sprite.
What I'm looking for here is the meat of
the jump. By manually picking and
choosing the most dynamic frames and
cutting the ones I don't like, I can
turn a 16 frame sequence into a tight,
snappy 12 frame animation. It's all
about curation, getting rid of the fluff
so the jump feels instant and responsive
the second the player hits that button.
Of course, we needed some kind of enemy.
So, I'm going to take one of the other
characters we got from the style images
and drag him into the animate with text
tool. I'm going to prompt something like
idol doing magic and breathing and pad
it the same way I did for our main
character to 80 by 80. I'll enhance the
prompt.
Do eight frames and hit generate.
Look at that. That's pretty sick, not
going to lie. Here's how he'll look in
game.
All right, so now let's move on to tile
sets. For sidescroller tile sets, you
can go to either a sprite or pixelama,
but I'm going to be using pixelama right
now. We can go to the map category and
create tile set sidescroller. Here you
can describe the top tile and the center
tile of your set. You can also define
the outline style, the shading, and the
tile size. We have 16x 16 or 32x 32. I'm
going to use these settings just as they
are and hit generate. There we go. We
got a pretty nice rocks and grass tile
set. Let's try one more at 32x 32 for a
snow and ice wall.
And there we go. That's a pretty decent
tile set. You can always retry to get
better results, but what I really wanted
to show you is a trick to edit these
tile sets and make them look even
prettier. Let's try it with this first
set. Let's go to edit Image Pro. Set the
tile set as our image. And I'll prompt
it something like make the tile set
prettier with real grass accents and
stone walls.
Look at that. It was as simple as just
telling it to make it prettier and add
those details. If you like the results,
you can go back to the create tile set
tool and hit transform to tile set,
which lets you transform it into
different layouts like wang or 15 tile.
I'm going to do 15 this time.
And let's try it with the ice one as
well. Using another trick, you can
actually go to create tile set.
Transform the tile set first so it's a
smaller image with the auto tiles
already set. Then go to edit image pro
and prompt make this tile set prettier.
Ice wall and snow top. Keep the same
composition.
Just look at that. That's 100 times
better. Now we can test it out.
and it works perfectly. Moving on, I
want to make a background. This is just
to showcase the tools, but I'm going to
make a 16x9 aspect ratio here in my map,
which gives me a 512x
288 pixel canvas. I'm going to draw the
floor manually just so we have a
reference, but you can do it in asite as
well by drawing the tiles in. Now that
we have that set, I'm going to put the
character in and go ahead and use the
inpaint V3 tool. I'll select both the
floor and the character, then inverse
that selection. That way I can input
the characters we want to keep. I'll
fill that in. And now we have an
inpainting selection. I'm going to
prompt something like a seamless
horizontal snowy landscape background
for a sidescroller game. Simple and
beautiful. I'm not going to remove the
background. I'm just going to hit
generate. Look at that. If we go to view
tiled mode and just check the xaxis, you
can see it tiles perfectly. But now
we're missing the floor where the
character was. We can fix that by
getting rid of the old inpainting
selection and just painting over where
our character and floor were. I'll use
the same prompt on a new layer with
changes and hit generate.
Look at that. We got a pretty nice floor
as well and it loops perfectly. Now, if
you want to get really fancy with that
background, you can go to edit image
pro, set the image and prompt, leave
just the trees for parallax, remove
everything else, keep the same
composition. Hit remove background. Use
a new layer with changes and hit
generate.
Check this out. It literally isolated
the trees for us and they still tile
perfectly. I'm going to do the same
thing for the mountains and the sky.
Now, when you test it out in game, you
can set up parallax depth really easily.
All right, this is the last thing I'm
going to show you, which is how to make
a full scene just by using the character
as a reference. I'm going to use the
same canvas size as before and place a
character where I think he should stand.
I'll go to inpaint feed 3. Select the
character, inverse it, and fill it. Now
I'll prompt game map sidescroller 2.5D
game. The character is standing on the
floor. Beautiful scene, desert fantasy.
And check it out. That's a pretty dope
scene. It didn't really remove the
character from the generation, but we
can fix that easily with inpaint feed 2.
I'll use the selection paint over where
the character was and prompt nature.
And there we go. A beautiful scene where
we can drop our character in. So yeah,
that's the video. I hope this helps your
gamedev journey.